---
layout: post
title: TheSaurus vs Arsonal
---

Last week on the [The Dirtbag Dan show](http://www.dirtbagdanshow.com/) they spoke to TheSaurus about his upcoming battle with Arsonal. They addressed his matchups of recent years and how this one should be bigger for him than most of those. 

He has taken on a lot of battles, in many of which he has given amazing performances. Some of which have not added much to his legacy. I remember when I watched him against Charron, and Charron sniffed him and said, 'that's what midtier smells like'. It was awkwardly fitting. As he used to be the biggest name in his scene at some point his stock has dropped.

There is a big section about him in the Fresh Coast documentary. There is a reason for that. He had firstly competed so much then but also had a very distinctive style. That is where I think he set himself apart from the rest in those days.

As styles have evolved and new faces made their way to the top ranks TheSaurus has adapted excellently. Many of the guys from '08, '09 might not be as relevant as TheSaurus is, but he is not the same leader as he was. What he used to be good at, flips for example has become mediocre at best. This is where I think the stockdropping happened.

This is why I don't find this an exiting matchup.

But it should be.

The biggest difference I feel between the styles that are around now and those that came before is directness. There is much more play with language and interesting things related to that, that are happening now, but before people were very direct. A 'You look like the type to' went very far if it felt fitting. This still sneaks in today, for example in Illmaculate's beard line against Bigg K, but they are much fewer and far between.

What should he do?

Those that have seen MarvWon vs. Lotta Zay can attests to that 'Old Marv is back'. Marv has had far from glorious performances recently and it was a breath of fresh air to see him there. He must have found something in his old style and incorporated that into his performance against Lotta and it worked amazingly. This is what I feel TheSaurus should do. Clown Arsonal, sharpen his rebuttals etc. The new era is Arsonal's home turf and the battle won't be very exiting if TheSaurus fights it there.
