---
layout: post
title: GSS
---

I have been experimenting with web development as it is all around me. HTML is straightforward and neither fun nor boring, it is mostly necessary. CSS however, as simple as it seems can be very difficult to use and I have spent many hours trying to position a `div` or have things line up properly.

An exciting addition was introduced a few months ago, [GSS or grid stylesheets](http://gridstylesheets.org/). It uses linear optimization methods to solve for positions and sizes through a pretty legible syntax. For example you can constrain a margin based on the margin of the parent element

{% highlight js %}
margin-right: == ::parent[margin-right] * -1;
{% endhighlight %}

You can watch the founder of the company behind this library in a recently released walk-through of [making a simple profile page](http://vimeo.com/99873002).

In an attempt to learn to use this new library I am going to try to imitate this blog layout that I use one step at a time. The first part I have put a link to in the sidebar. I made two `div`s, black and white and a button to take you back to this page.

In GSS that can be written as follows

{% highlight js %}
#nav-bar {
    background-color: black;
    color: white;
    height: == ::window[height];
    width: == ::window[width]/3;
    position: fixed !important;
}


#content {
    display: block;
    height: == ::window[height];
    ::[left] == #nav-bar[right];
    width: == ::window[width] - #nav-bar[width];
}
{% endhighlight %}

What is happening here is that I give the sidebar a width and then the content I give the rest of the space on the screen. The sidebar is fixed as will be apparent when I add content to the page. That was not easy but through the keyword !important, it gives those constraints more importance and the sidebar truly is fixed.
