---
layout: post
title: Dizaster's ban
---

Battle rap is a sub genre. There is nothing obvious about it to an outsider and to him, Dizaster punching Math Hoffa probably was more predictable than to the rest of us. Math punching Dose was probably an important moment in battle rap. It got peoples' attention, positive and negative, and those aleady inside of the culture referenced it for a long time. When Math punched Serius Jones the URL brand took the action of banning him from URL regardless of their friendship and past history.

When Dizaster punched Math Hoffa similar actions were taken. King of the Dot had to take some action to prevent things like this from becoming a routine and to send a message to the outside world that this was not to be a part of the culture. With certain conditions Dizaster was banned from King of the Dot, to be lifted with a public apology and fee of some 2000 dollars.

There is a clear distinction between these two events. What has never come up in the big discussion that followed these events was that KOTD had the first Math Hoffa booking after his Serius Jones incident. RBE had an earlier booking but that event happened later. Banning Dizaster was supposed to show that those that damage events like he did are not allowed back, yet they had the return of Math Hoffa after he broke up an event on a much bigger scale.

Another thing that needs to be noted is that Dizaster is not a regular KOTD battler. Not only does he have some of their biggest battles but he also shed a lot of light on it while it was growing to the size it is today. Before he dropped his line, 'I am the king of the Dot', and later went on to challange PoRich for the championship, nobody had really taken it seriously. With his claim for it I believe people started taking it seriously to some extent at least and that is valuable to King of the Dot which has always tried to push those matches to the top of cards and had prize money and what have you. For this reason I believe some leniency should be shown. How that could be done while remaining in their stance against violence during events I do not know.