---
layout: post
title: The artistry of match ups
---

Before continuing with the math I want to talk a little about match ups. Some match ups are better than others and some cards are better than others. Even though Smack has many great battles they also regularly set up battles that baffle the fans. Hitman vs. Conceited being the biggest but there are many others. The Fresh Coast seldomly has matches like these set up. Ever since the beginning of GT West Coast there have been great match ups, many of them non obvious. They used to be a lot done as mirror matches as they called them but have progressed to being great style clashes. Daylyt vs. Rich Dollaz being a good example.

I believe there is also a right and a wrong time for match ups. Ill Will was put on the main stage way to early in his career and that seems to have decreased his stock dramatically. Thesaurus vs. Illmaculate was set up for BOTB5, at the height of West Coast battling, it would have made little sense before that and it would make no sense today but when it happened it was the most exciting thing in a long time.

With the Duel in the Desert card, there is a new player in the game of setting up events. I remember when I saw this card, the match ups all looked real interesting. Finally Illmac was getting somebody big that mattered, Daylyt vs Real Deal could have been amazing, Arsonal usually performs really well against up and comers, I expected Danny Myers to bring something good out of Aye Verb etc. Every battle on the card made sense in some way, even DNA vs Sketch as Sketch had gotten a lot of hype after his last two performances in Canada. After watching the event it really lived up to my expectations, in most ways at least. What I have heard is that the same people are setting up a new card which will feature Caustic vs Head ICE, another battle that looks real good. I wish them all the best.
