---
layout: post
title: Does it only matter if it's on Smack?
---

Battle rap is a culture of big words and endless debates. One thing we have heard a lot of for the past weeks and months has been Smack White's comment that if a battle doesn't happen on URL, it doesn't count. Most people have some opinion on it but we thought that, as battle rappers seem obsessed with numbers, it might be worth taking a deeper look into Smack's statement.

We have gathered all battles between the top 50 most viewed battlers according to versetracker.com, and looked at what impact they have had.

When the data was compiled, 191 battles had been released (of 1225 possible) and on this first graph you can see which these match ups are.

<iframe src='http://hjonasson.github.io/top50/' width='100%' height='650' frameborder='0'></iframe>

A quick inspection gives you the idea that a big part of them are indeed URL battles. This is confirmed on the next graph which shows the total views, battle count per league and average views per league. URL with 66 battles overshadows King of the Dot and dwarfs other leagues. However the ever so important number, views, is where Dont Flop has some reach on URL. This is mostly due to some of their battles gaining a lot of attention, while URL seems to more consistently get very similar attention.

<iframe src='http://hjonasson.github.io/topBar/' width='100%' height='650' frameborder='0'></iframe>

There is a reason for this. If you look at the statistics section on youtube for almost any battle, you will see a curve that looks more or less like this. 

BAETA INN MYND

What this means is that most views come in the first few days of the video being online, indicating that most views come from subscribers (and whoever they recommend them to). Aside from the 10 million view battle Lil Sexxy vs Miles Low, this applies to all battles on the list. (This supports our claim that these 10 million views don't come from the battle scene and the title of the video, 14 year old vs 16 year old, has all the symptoms of a viral video and none of a typical rap battle).

This should not come as a surprise as battle rap often feels like a very closed culture with a steep learning curve. Now, since subscribers make up these views, added views and attention will come from added subscribers. So which battles attract new fans and to what extent? Relatively recently youtube started tracking this. The numbers aren't there for older battles so it is unclear for example what Arsonal vs Hitman Holla did for URL. Regardless of that this list should not surprise many as this looks like a list of career performances, on one side if not both. URL loses noticibly here with very few battles in the top 30 list. What this means is that even though they have a big and loyal fanbase, they have the least expansion out of the leagues on the list.

A final note to debate against Smack being the only league that matters comes from this idea that most views come in the first days. Does that mean you can you expect different views if you release your battle on a Monday than on a Tuesday? Indeed, it actually seems equally important to have you battle released on a Saturday, Sunday or Monday over other days as it is to have your battle released on URL over other leagues.

In summary, that a battle ONLY matters if it is on Smack, is a bit of an overstatement. However it does seem to matter the most if it happens there and the amount of high caliber battles they book can not be overlooked. For other leagues it should be a relief that a good performance seems to matter more than the league it is on and URL is doing the least of all these leagues to expand their fanbase so in a few years the slogans might be different.
